Title:  Notenik for the Mac Versions 2.5.0 and 2.6.0 Released

Seq:    blog.8

Tags:   blog

Link:   https://notenik.net/blog/notenik-for-the-mac-versions-2.5.0-and-2.6.0-released.html

Type:   Post

Date:   Jan 08, 2020

Teaser:

Version 2.6.0 was focused on strengthening support for opening folders full of existing text files and handling them smoothly as Notenik Collections. 


Body:   
 
Version 2.6.0 was focused on strengthening support for opening folders full of existing text files and handling them smoothly as Notenik Collections. 

This is especially important since Notenik introduces some important variations from any existing text file formats -- notably the use of an explicit Body label preceding the main part of the note -- and so users with existing collections of text-based notes are not likely to have formatted them to Notenik's standards, and are probably not interested in reformatting all of their Notes in order to allow Notenik to handle them sensibly. 

Notenik now makes its best effort to recognize and appropriately handle the following variations on the normal Notenik format. 

1. Markdown - The first line of the file contains a Markdown level 1 heading, which is to be used as the Note's title. The remainder of the file makes up the body. No metadata, and no field labels. 

2. MultiMarkdown Metadata - The file may start with metadata, including a title, but there is no explicit label identifying the start of the body; instead, the first blank line indicates the end of the metadata and the start of the body. 

3. Plain Text - The title is taken from the file name, and the entire contents of the file makes up the body. No metadata, and no field labels.  

Notenik will generally be able to determine which of these variations is being used based on the contents of the first few lines of the text file. 

Notenik will also attempt to respect these variations when modifying an existing Note, keeping each Note in its original format. 

A date parsing enhancement was also added, so that dates formatted as yyyymmdd, without any punctuation, will be correctly parsed. 

The spelling checker was enabled for the Body text in 2.5.0.

This earlier release also added the ability to reload a Note from disk, which can be useful after using the Text Edit command to invoke an external text editor. 

JSON export and sharing options were also added. 

And, last but not least, a few additional bugs were corrected.

